---
layout: 	post
title:  	"Final Week: India"
subtitle:   "Bangalore, India"
header-img: "img/india-header.jpg"
lat: 		12.981049
lon: 		77.6367491
---

After four glorious months of travel, we had just six days left. And, we wanted to spend them in India.

It had been many years since either one of us had stepped foot on Indian soil. And, we had never been in India together. Yet, as soon as we arrived, we immediately felt closer to home.

The first two days we wandered the chaotic streets of Delhi, letting India wash over us once again. We savored our favorite foods: rich Bengali curries, fresh-squeezed pomegranate juice with a dash of masala, pukka chai, and pani puri with its explosion of spicy and sweet, smooth and crunch, warm and refreshing, all in one bite. We delighted in Bollywood (you really must all watch [My Name is Khan](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/My_Name_Is_Khan), trust us). Michael marveled at Robynn's “superpower”: the ability to charm even the most aggressive of touts with just a few words of Hindi.

After Delhi, we escaped to a yoga retreat on a beautiful campus an hour outside of Bangalore. Our days were filled with yoga, meditation, massage, and delicious vegetarian meals derived from the retreat's own organic garden. It was an idyllic backdrop for reflecting on a momentous year and what it means for the life we want to live when we return to the U.S.

And, before we knew it, the whirlwind of re-entry had begun. We will quickly touch ground in DC and New York before finally landing back in San Francisco on Labor Day, September 7th. We cannot wait to see you all soon!